---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

This is a wee blog from the Software Defined Radio (SDR) research group at the
[University of
Strathclyde](https://www.strath.ac.uk/engineering/electronicelectricalengineering/).

We've also got some other presence on the web for various projects. Here's a
list (that's surely out of date by the time you're reading this!).

## GitHub

<img src="https://cdn.afterdawn.fi/v3/news/original/github-logo.png" style="max-width:30%"/>

You most likely already know that we have a presence on GitHub, as [strath-sdr](https://github.com/strath-sdr).

As well as this HQ, members of our team have lately been contributing to
Xilinx's PYNQ and RFSoC efforts. Some of this work can be found at the PYNQ
[ZCU111 board repo](https://github.com/Xilinx/ZCU111-PYNQ), and the PYNQ [RFSoC
workshop repo](https://github.com/Xilinx/PYNQ_RFSOC_Workshop).

## Exploring MPSoC

<img src="https://www.zynq-mpsoc-book.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/zynq_mpsoc_book_cover.jpg" style="max-width:30%"/>

This book introduces the Zynq MPSoC (Multi-Processor System-on-Chip), an
embedded device from XilinxÂ® that combines a processing system that includes Arm
Cortex-A53 application and Arm Cortex-R5 real-time processors, alongside FPGA
programmable logic. The book covers the architecture of the device, the design
tools and methods, conventional hardware/software co-design approach, and the
newer software-defined methodology, as well as hardware and software
development, multiprocessing, safety, security and platform management, system
booting, and special features on PYNQ (a Python-based framework) and machine
learning applications.

> Find out more about the Exporing MPSoC book [here](http://zynq-mpsoc-book.com).

## Desktop SDR

<img src="https://www.desktopsdr.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/07/book_cover-272x300.png" style="max-width:30%"/>

In this free book we introduce readers to SDR methods by viewing and analysing
downconverted RF signals in the time and frequency domains, and then provide
extensive DSP enabled SDR design exercises which the reader can learn from. The
hands-on examples begin with simple AM and FM receivers, and move on to the more
challenging aspects of PHY layer DSP, where receive filter chains, real-time
channelisers, and advanced concepts such as carrier synchronisers, digital PLL
designs and QPSK timing and phase synchronisers are implemented. Towards the end
of the book, we demonstrate how the RTL-SDR can be used with SDR transmitters to
develop a more complete communications system, capable of transmitting text
strings and images across the desktop.

> Find out about the Software Defined Radio using MATLAB & Simulink and the RTL-SDR book [here](http://www.desktopsdr.com/)

## 5G Rural First

<img src="https://www.5gruralfirst.org/wp-content/themes/cisco-5g/assets/img/site-logo-dark.svg" style="max-width:50%"/>

5G RuralFirst is a co-innovation project led by Cisco alongside principal
partner University of Strathclyde and a consortium of other partners from across
business, government, and academia. Its first goal is to create rural test-beds
and trials for 5G wireless and mobile connectivity across three main sites in
the Orkney Islands, Shropshire, and Somerset.

> Find out more about the 5G rural first project [here](https://www.5gruralfirst.org/).
